The Joe Rogan experience.
Just to give you an example in my book, I talk about Winston Churchill,
Winston church, a little, 1939,
wrote an essay about the fact that there could be life around other, in,
on other planets, around other stars. And we, we should search for it. Now,
he didn't have a chance to publish it cause he became prime and,
and then had to fight the, the second world war against the Nazi regime.
So much money was wasted in that war.
If that money was allocated to the search for extraterrestrial life,
the way the Churchill envisioned it before the war we might have,
we might have known the answer by now. And what I'm saying is this is just an,
an example for how non-intelligent we are.
We are not working together towards a better future. We're fighting each other.
And that's the answer to your question that we might not live very long.
But you're saying this as you work at Harvard and as you are writing books on
extra terrestrial objects, right? I don't necessarily agree with, with you.
I think there are massive problems with people,
but I think we are far better than the human beings that live 2000 years ago in
that regard.
And I think that we will probably be looking back on this day and age and
mocking how stupid we are when we are more advanced 2000 years. I really.
Hope so. And that's what I'm trying to do.
I think we're moving in that direction. Well, that's what I'm trying to promote,
but I'm not necessarily as optimistic.
As you are. Think, I think our cake is still in the oven. Let's.
Hope so. I think that's, I, I really want that future, but you know,
I'm doing my best, but you can see from the pushback yes.
To which I don't have access because I, I'm not, you know,
I don't have an account on the social media.
Congratulations again for now. I think that's, I, I,
I think we are moving. I think there's conflict,
but I think for whatever reason, the way human beings operate,
we oftentimes need conflict in order to make improvements, right?
We need a yin and a yang. We needed a given a poll. If we don't have that,
we get, we get complacent. Why.
Can't you understand the, the, the best path forward without, you know,
it's just like using a GPS system. And it says recalculating, yes,
every time we have a crisis recalculating.
So we recalculate our next move based on all the mistakes we've made.
Why can't we be smart in the.
First place?
I think we have biological limitations that are based on our ancestry and our
ancestry is filled with tribalism and chaos and we're primates. I mean, that's,
that's part of the problem. And I think that our,
our issue with racism is the same issue that we have when we have religious
discrimination or cultural discrimination. It's tribalism. I agree. And we are,
you know, we are just, it's wired into our DNA. Now.
My problem is why couldn't science given that,
you know, there are billions of earth sun systems within just the Milky way,
galaxy mm-hmm <affirmative> and then a trillion galaxies,
like the Milky way in the observable volume of the universe. You know,
why can't the mainstream of astronomy simply say
conservatively, you know, just assuming the most conservative,
not speculative assumption conservatively,
we are the middle of the road, you know, kind of life. Uh,
it's very likely that we're not unique and special,
and let's just look for evidence, you know, so much for it.
Why should that there be a taboo on discussing this subject?
That makes no sense. For example,
astronomers are now thinking contemplating new telescopes of the future
that will cost billions of dollars to taxpayers. Okay.
That would search for oxygen in the atmospheres of other planets,
around other stars,
because oxygen could be indicative of life microbial life.
I say it will never be conclusive, such a search,
even if it costs billions of dollars because the earth for 2 billion years,
the first two billionaires of the earth history didn't have much oxygen aids in
its atmosphere. There were micro robs, but the oxygen level was quite low.
And then it suddenly rose after 2 billion years, half of its life.
So not finding oxygen doesn't mean there is no life.
And then if you find oxygen,
it can be produced by many natural processes like breaking water
molecules or other things. So it will never be conclusive.
How can you make a co statement?
If you find industrial pollution in the same atmosphere,
you just search for CFCs.
These are the molecules produced by refrigerating systems by industries.
If you find evidence for that,
there is no way that nature can make these very complex molecules naturally.
So I say to the mainstream of astronomy,
use the same instruments and motivate them by this question of,
can we detect industrial pollution? And I wrote a paper about it.
And the thing is, the public is extremely interested in this question
and the public funds science.
So how can this scientific community shy away from a question that it can
address with existing technology? You know,
when the public is very interested in that,
how can there be a taboo on this question?
That's the thing that really passes me now. You know,
I wasn't working in this area until the last five years or so.
I was working in studying black holes, studying the universe,
and I came across, uh, a number of ideas that led me in, into this,
uh, rabbit hole into this, uh, subject.
Now I'm about to publish this book at a popular level,
but also a textbook six months later that describes all the signs that we
have related to the search for life outside earth, far from earth.
And I'm just amazed that, um, it's not part of the mainstream, you know,
it's really surprising to me.
And I think it's inappropriate because you look at physics, theoretical physics,
there are lots of speculative ideas in it.
Like people talk about extra dimensions, the multiverse, you know,
super symmetry, super string theory,
all of these have no evidence to their credit. You know,
there is no experimental test, not even thought about, you know,
like in the next decade, the next two decades,
but these ideas are part of the mainstream.
So you see physicists giving each other awards and doing
intellectual gymnastics, you know, just demonstrating that they're smart.
And to me, that's an unhealthy situation in physics. You know,
you can do it in mathematics where it's completely detached from, uh,
any application to reality, but in physics, we are supposed to describe reality.
And yet you have these intellectual. So it's as if the physics community,
some parts of it decided that the most important task is to demonstrate
that you are smart. And that is really strange to me because, you know,
we are supposed to understand nature, not sure that we are smart.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video and
audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the back ground while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode, a Joe Rogan experience.